OADP 1309 GCP WIF (#66071)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/oadp-gcp-wif-cloud-authentication.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/installing-oadp-gcp.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="oadp-gcp-wif-cloud-authentication_{context}"]
= Google WIF cloud authentication

Applications running outside Google Cloud use service account keys to access Google Cloud resources, these service account keys can become a security risk if they are not managed correctly.

With identity federation (WIF), you can use Identity and Access Management (IAM) to grant external identities IAM roles, including the ability to impersonate service accounts. This eliminates the maintenance and security risks associated with service account keys.

WIF handles encrypting and decrypting certificates, extracting user attributes, and validation. WIF externalizes authentication, passing it over to Security Token Services (STS) and reduces the demands on individual developers. Authorization and controlling access to resources remain the responsibility of the application.

[NOTE]
====

> Google WIF cloud authentication is available only for OADP 1.3.

Reviewer: I might go with OADP 1.3 and later
```suggestion
Google WIF cloud authentication is available for OADP 1.3 and later.
```

====

If you do not use Google WIF cloud authentication, continue to xref:../../..//backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/oadp-installing-operator.adoc#oadp-installing-operator-doc[Installing the OADP Operator].

.Prerequisites

> * You must install a cluster in manual mode https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/4.13/html-single/authentication_and_authorization/index#gcp-workload-identity-mode-installing[with GCP Workload Identity configured]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You must install a cluster in manual mode link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/4.13/html-single/authentication_and_authorization/index#gcp-workload-identity-mode-installing[with GCP Workload Identity configured].
```

* You now have access to `ccoctl` CLI and access to the associated workload-identity-pool.

.Procedure

> . Create an oadp-credrequest dir.

Reviewer: Possibly?
```suggestion
. Create an oadp-credrequest directory.
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ mkdir -p oadp-credrequest
----
+

> . Create an credrequest.yaml.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a credrequest.yaml.
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
echo 'apiVersion: cloudcredential.openshift.io/v1
kind: CredentialsRequest
metadata:
  name: oadp-operator-credentials
  namespace: openshift-cloud-credential-operator
spec:
  providerSpec:
    apiVersion: cloudcredential.openshift.io/v1
    kind: GCPProviderSpec
    permissions:
    - compute.disks.get
    - compute.disks.create
    - compute.disks.createSnapshot
    - compute.snapshots.get
    - compute.snapshots.create
    - compute.snapshots.useReadOnly
    - compute.snapshots.delete
    - compute.zones.get
    - storage.objects.create
    - storage.objects.delete
    - storage.objects.get
    - storage.objects.list
    - iam.serviceAccounts.signBlob
    skipServiceCheck: true
  secretRef:
    name: cloud-credentials-gcp
    namespace: <OPERATOR_INSTALL_NS>
  serviceAccountNames:
  - velero
' > oadp-credrequest/credrequest.yaml
----
+

> . Use the ccoctl to create the credrequest pointing to the directory `oadp-credrequest`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Use `ccoctl` to create the `credrequest` pointing to the directory `oadp-credrequest`
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/installing-oadp-gcp.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="oadp-gcp-wif-cloud-authentication_{context}"]

> = Google WIF cloud authentication

Reviewer 2: Thanks, that's good info! They don't seem to use "WIF" though, so our docs should still call it what they do ("workload identity federation").

> = Google WIF cloud authentication

Author: Thanks. I'm going to sue the term Workload identity federation.

Applications running outside Google Cloud use service account keys to access Google Cloud resources, these service account keys can become a security risk if they are not managed correctly.

With identity federation (WIF), you can use Identity and Access Management (IAM) to grant external identities IAM roles, including the ability to impersonate service accounts. This eliminates the maintenance and security risks associated with service account keys.

> WIF handles encrypting and decrypting certificates, extracting user attributes, and validation. WIF externalizes authentication, passing it over to Security Token Services (STS) and reduces the demands on individual developers. Authorization and controlling access to resources remain the responsibility of the application.

Author: I'm going to have to leave in the Oxford comma.

[NOTE]
====

> Google WIF cloud authentication is avail for OADP 1.3.x and later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Google WIF cloud authentication is available for OADP 1.3.x and later.
```

There are just a few little mistakelets in this doc, please just have a read-through

====

> If you do not use Google WIF cloud authentication, continue to xref:../../../backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/oadp-installing-operator.adoc#oadp-installing-operator-doc[Installing the OADP Operator].

Author: @jeana-redhat 
Thank you. I didn't realize that.

> If you do not use Google WIF cloud authentication, continue to xref:../../..//backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/oadp-installing-operator.adoc#oadp-installing-operator-doc[Installing the OADP Operator].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do not use Google WIF cloud authentication, continue to xref:../../../backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/oadp-installing-operator.adoc#oadp-installing-operator-doc[Installing the OADP Operator].
```

.Prerequisites

> * You must install a cluster in manual mode with link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/4.13/html-single/authentication_and_authorization/index#gcp-workload-identity-mode-installing[GCP Workload Identity configured].

Author: If the topic was in the same file system we could use an xref, which we prefer to use. However, this topic isn't in the same file so we need to use a access.redhat.com link.

> * You must install a cluster in manual mode with link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/4.13/html-single/authentication_and_authorization/index#gcp-workload-identity-mode-installing[GCP Workload Identity configured].

Reviewer: Can you try to use xrefs instead of links... also why link to 4.13

Author: I'll see if it can be done. 4.14 has not yet been published, if I link to it the link doesn't work.

Author: @anarnold97 
We can only use xrefs in assemblies. This reference is in the middle of a module and therefore we need to use a hard link.

* You now have access to `ccoctl` CLI and access to the associated workload-identity-pool.

.Procedure

. Create an `oadp-credrequest` directory.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ mkdir -p oadp-credrequest
----

> +

Author: Thank you.

. Create a `CredentialsRequest`.yaml file as following:
+
[source,yaml]
----
echo 'apiVersion: cloudcredential.openshift.io/v1
kind: CredentialsRequest
metadata:
  name: oadp-operator-credentials
  namespace: openshift-cloud-credential-operator
spec:
  providerSpec:
    apiVersion: cloudcredential.openshift.io/v1
    kind: GCPProviderSpec
    permissions:
    - compute.disks.get
    - compute.disks.create
    - compute.disks.createSnapshot
    - compute.snapshots.get
    - compute.snapshots.create
    - compute.snapshots.useReadOnly
    - compute.snapshots.delete
    - compute.zones.get
    - storage.objects.create
    - storage.objects.delete
    - storage.objects.get
    - storage.objects.list
    - iam.serviceAccounts.signBlob
    skipServiceCheck: true
  secretRef:
    name: cloud-credentials-gcp
    namespace: <OPERATOR_INSTALL_NS>
  serviceAccountNames:
  - velero
' > oadp-credrequest/credrequest.yaml
----
+

> . Use `ccoctl` to create the `credrequest` pointing to the directory `oadp-credrequest`as following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Use the `ccoctl` utility to process the `CredentialsRequest` objects in the `oadp-credrequest` directory by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----

> ccoctl gcp create-service-accounts --name=<name> \
>     --project=<gcp-project-id> \
>     --credentials-requests-dir=oadp-credrequest \
>     --workload-identity-pool=<pool-id> \
>     --workload-identity-provider=<provider-id>

Reviewer 2: * Missing `$` character.
* User-replaced values should be `_` separated rather than `-` separated. 

So:

```suggestion
$ ccoctl gcp create-service-accounts \
    --name=<name> \
    --project=<gcp_project_id> \
    --credentials-requests-dir=oadp-credrequest \
    --workload-identity-pool=<pool_id> \
    --workload-identity-provider=<provider_id>
```

----
+

> . The `manifests/openshift-adp-cloud-credentials-gcp-credentials.yaml` is now available to use in the following step.

Reviewer 2: This is not a user step. If you need to call this out, you can still do that just without the `.`
```suggestion
The `manifests/openshift-adp-cloud-credentials-gcp-credentials.yaml` file is available to use in the following step.
```

+
. Apply the credentials secret to the openshift-adp namespace as following:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> oc create namespace openshift-adp

Reviewer 3: oc create namespace openshift-adp
oc create namespace <OPERATOR_INSTALL_NS>

Author: @sbahar619 
I made the correction.
Please review and approve the PR.

oc apply -f manifests/openshift-adp-cloud-credentials-gcp-credentials.yaml

> ----

Reviewer 2: This is two steps. Looks like first is "create a namespace", and then "apply creds to the namespace". Break them out into one step per command, and remember to use "by running the following command" and the `$` character for the prompt on each.

[NOTE]
====
Google workload identity federation is available for OADP 1.3.x and later.
====

If you do not use Google workload identity federation cloud authentication, continue to _Installing the Data Protection Application_.

.Prerequisites

* You have installed a cluster in manual mode with link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.14/installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-customizations.html#installing-gcp-with-short-term-creds_installing-gcp-customizations[GCP Workload Identity configured].
* You have access to the Cloud Credential Operator utility (`ccoctl`) and to the associated workload identity pool.

.Procedure

. Create an `oadp-credrequest` directory by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ mkdir -p oadp-credrequest
----
. Create a `CredentialsRequest.yaml` file as following:
+
[source,yaml]
----

> echo 'apiVersion: cloudcredential.openshift.io/v1

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
'apiVersion: cloudcredential.openshift.io/v1
```

> echo 'apiVersion: cloudcredential.openshift.io/v1

Reviewer 4: I think we should provide a plain yaml here

echo 'apiVersion: cloudcredential.openshift.io/v1
kind: CredentialsRequest
metadata:
  name: oadp-operator-credentials
  namespace: openshift-cloud-credential-operator
spec:
  providerSpec:
    apiVersion: cloudcredential.openshift.io/v1
    kind: GCPProviderSpec
    permissions:
    - compute.disks.get
    - compute.disks.create
    - compute.disks.createSnapshot
    - compute.snapshots.get
    - compute.snapshots.create
    - compute.snapshots.useReadOnly
    - compute.snapshots.delete
    - compute.zones.get
    - storage.objects.create
    - storage.objects.delete
    - storage.objects.get
    - storage.objects.list
    - iam.serviceAccounts.signBlob
    skipServiceCheck: true
  secretRef:

>     name: cloud-credentials-gcp

Reviewer 5: Just a note that this name here should be used in
```
          name: {credentials} <6>
```
from modules/oadp-installing-dpa.adoc

Signal that however you'd like.

    namespace: <OPERATOR_INSTALL_NS>
  serviceAccountNames:
  - velero
' > oadp-credrequest/credrequest.yaml
----
+
. Use `ccoctl` to create the `credrequest` pointing to the directory `oadp-credrequest`
+
[source,terminal]
----
ccoctl gcp create-service-accounts --name=<name> \
    --project=<gcp-project-id> \
    --credentials-requests-dir=oadp-credrequest \
    --workload-identity-pool=<pool-id> \
    --workload-identity-provider=<provider-id>
----
+

> . Use the ccoctl reference to generate  `manifests/openshift-adp-cloud-credentials-gcp-credentials.yaml` to use in the following step.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
`manifests/openshift-adp-cloud-credentials-gcp-credentials.yaml` should now be available to use in the following step.
```

[ccoctl reference](https://github.com/openshift/cloud-credential-operator/blob/master/docs/ccoctl.md#creating-iam-service-accounts) is just a link to reference, and is not part of the required procedures.

+
. Apply the credentials secret to the openshift-adp namespace
+
[source,terminal]
----
oc create namespace openshift-adp
oc apply -f manifests/openshift-adp-cloud-credentials-gcp-credentials.yaml
----
+

> . Generate a token...?

Author: Do we need a section on "Generating tokens?"

Reviewer 5: ```
ccoctl gcp create-service-accounts --name=<name> \
    --project=<gcp-project-id> \
    --credentials-requests-dir=oadp-credrequest \
    --workload-identity-pool=<pool-id> \
    --workload-identity-provider=<provider-id>
```
from earlier generated the token to use already which we are applying in
```
oc apply -f manifests/openshift-adp-cloud-credentials-gcp-credentials.yaml
```

Reviewer 5: so no.
